# Exploration-and-Predictive-Analysis-of-Cryptocurrency-Trading-with-Binance-History-Data
In this project, we have studied on the Binance full history data from Kaggle. This is typical time-series-based big data on which there are very few previous researches. After preparing the data, we first express it in an intuitive way and try to obtain some financial insights into it. Then we try to predict and classify future volatilties by applying machine learning models to the data: We train a variety of models on a single dataframe to have a taste of how they work in general, before using the delicately selected XGBoost model, a highly parallelizable machine learning model, to tackle the whole dataset with the help of Amazon EMR Cluster and Apache Spark. After the process of singal filtering, the predictive results given by our XGBoost models have an accuracy of around 90% and thus can be of much practical use in the aforementioned fields. During the entire process, we have cautiously avoided some common mistakes that we observed on Kaggle.

After the exploration of a diversity of models, it is natural to consider stacking them together as a more complicated model. Unfortunately, this requires much more computational resources than what we have at our disposal, but surely it is a good direction for future researches. On the other hand, perhaps our approach can be generalized to model not only cryptocurrency data, but also other financial data including foreign exchange rates, stock prices, etc. Hopefully, our research can shed some light on how to predict the volatilities of financial time series in the future.


Open [`Notebook`](https://github.com/Hugo-coder-hjh/Exploration-and-Predictive-Analysis-of-Cryptocurrency-Trading-with-Binance-History-Data/blob/main/Exploration-and-Predictive-Analysis.ipynb) to learn more details
